CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We welcome error reports and patches to the PDK repository. Post questions to [puppet-users@groups.google.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/puppet-users). Post bug reports and pull requests on GitHub at https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdk/issues.

# Running from source

If you need to run `pdk` in a working directory outside the cloned repository, either set `BUNDLE_GEMFILE` to the pdk's Gemfile location, or install and use the [binstubs of bundler](http://bundler.io/v1.15/bundle_binstubs.html). These binstubs are small proxy binaries that set up the environment for running the tool.

```
# assuming ~/bin is already on your path:
$ bundle binstubs pdk --path ~/bin
```

## binstubs and Windows

The binstubs generated by bundler depend on the hashbang (`#!`) to invoke ruby, however this of course doesn't work on Windows. To invoke the binstubs you must call ruby and then specify the path to the binstub. For example, let's say we have the PDK source called `pdk` and a test module called `testmodule`

``` powershell
# Starting from the PDK Source directory

# 1. Create bin directory
PS> mkdir ..\testmodule\bin

# 2. Create the binstub in the test module
PS> bundle binstubs pdk --path ..\testmodule\bin

# 3. Change directory to the test module
PS> cd ..\testmodule

# 4. Run the pdk binstub
PS> ruby.exe bin\pdk --version
1.10.0.pre (heads/master-g3e22a80)
```

# Running tests

pdk has the following testing Rake tasks.

## spec

Runs unit tests.

## rubocop

Runs Ruby style checks. Use `rake rubocop:auto_correct` to fix the easy ones.

## acceptance:local

Runs acceptance tests on the current pdk code. These tests are executed on commits and pull requests to this repo using both travis and appveyor.

# Testing packages

The package-testing/ folder contains files for testing built packages of pdk. This is for Puppet's packaging CI, so contributors outside of Puppet, Inc. don't need to worry about executing it. It uses [beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker) to provision a VM, fetch and install a pdk installation package, and then run the acceptance tests on that VM.

This folder has its own Gemfile and Rakefile providing an _acceptance_ rake task. It requires some environment variables to be set in order to specify what beaker will set up:

Environment Variable | Usage
---------------------|------
**SHA** | The SHA or tag of a package build i.e. the folder name on the build server that packages will be found in.
*--or--* |
**LOCAL_PKG** | Full path to a locally built package that you want to test.
**TEST_TARGET** | A beaker-hostgenerator string for the OS of the VM you want to test on e.g. _redhat7-64workstation._ or _windows2012r2-64workstation._ (The period character after workstation is required by beaker-hostgenerator).
**BUILD_SERVER** | (Defaults to 'builds.delivery.puppetlabs.net' if not set) (Only required if testing a SHA on a Windows VM). The hostname of the build server that hosts packages. A Puppet JIRA ticket ([BKR-1109](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/BKR-1109)) has been filed to update beaker so this would never be required.
**SUITE_VERSION** | (If not set, will be automatically determined if possible) The build tag/version string used when installing packages on certain platforms - e.g. if the package you built is `pdk-0.5.0.0.21.gb84d40e-1.osx10.12.dmg` then **SUITE_VERSION** would be `0.5.0.0.21.gb84d40e`

# Release Process

1. Bump the version in `lib/pdk/version.rb`.
1. In a clean checkout of master, run `bundle exec rake changelog`.
1. Edit PR titles and tags, until `bundle exec rake changelog` output makes sense.
1. Run `bundle exec rake gettext:pot` to update the translations.
1. Commit and PR the changes.
1. When the PR is merged, get a clean checkout of the merged commit, and run `bundle exec rake release[upstream]` (where "upstream" is your local name of the puppetlabs remote)
1. Profit!
1. Update `lib/pdk/version.rb` with `x.y.z.pre` version bump, commit, and PR to prepare for next release.

Commit message:

(performance) - Sets up basic performance testing
  * Adds a basic performance test so we can start measuring.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We welcome error reports and patches to the PDK repository. Post questions to [puppet-users@groups.google.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/puppet-users). Post bug reports and pull requests on GitHub at https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdk/issues.

# Running from source

If you need to run `pdk` in a working directory outside the cloned repository, either set `BUNDLE_GEMFILE` to the pdk's Gemfile location, or install and use the [binstubs of bundler](http://bundler.io/v1.15/bundle_binstubs.html). These binstubs are small proxy binaries that set up the environment for running the tool.

```
# assuming ~/bin is already on your path:
$ bundle binstubs pdk --path ~/bin
```

## binstubs and Windows

The binstubs generated by bundler depend on the hashbang (`#!`) to invoke ruby, however this of course doesn't work on Windows. To invoke the binstubs you must call ruby and then specify the path to the binstub. For example, let's say we have the PDK source called `pdk` and a test module called `testmodule`

``` powershell
# Starting from the PDK Source directory

# 1. Create bin directory
PS> mkdir ..\testmodule\bin

# 2. Create the binstub in the test module
PS> bundle binstubs pdk --path ..\testmodule\bin

# 3. Change directory to the test module
PS> cd ..\testmodule

# 4. Run the pdk binstub
PS> ruby.exe bin\pdk --version
1.10.0.pre (heads/master-g3e22a80)
```

# Running tests

pdk has the following testing Rake tasks.

## spec

Runs unit tests.

## rubocop

Runs Ruby style checks. Use `rake rubocop:auto_correct` to fix the easy ones.

## acceptance:local

Runs acceptance tests on the current pdk code. These tests are executed on commits and pull requests to this repo using both travis and appveyor.

## Performance testing
Performance testing is new and there are not many tests as a result.  If you are improving a function for performance
we suggest you create a performance based test before hand before refactoring.  Your initial test should be set to a known performance number, even if it is really bad. 

`perform_under(1000).ms`

Later, when you are testing you can set your target performance number and refactor until you have acheived your goal. 

Performance tests should be created under `spec/performance`.
# Testing packages

The package-testing/ folder contains files for testing built packages of pdk. This is for Puppet's packaging CI, so contributors outside of Puppet, Inc. don't need to worry about executing it. It uses [beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker) to provision a VM, fetch and install a pdk installation package, and then run the acceptance tests on that VM.

This folder has its own Gemfile and Rakefile providing an _acceptance_ rake task. It requires some environment variables to be set in order to specify what beaker will set up:

Environment Variable | Usage
---------------------|------
**SHA** | The SHA or tag of a package build i.e. the folder name on the build server that packages will be found in.
*--or--* |
**LOCAL_PKG** | Full path to a locally built package that you want to test.
**TEST_TARGET** | A beaker-hostgenerator string for the OS of the VM you want to test on e.g. _redhat7-64workstation._ or _windows2012r2-64workstation._ (The period character after workstation is required by beaker-hostgenerator).
**BUILD_SERVER** | (Defaults to 'builds.delivery.puppetlabs.net' if not set) (Only required if testing a SHA on a Windows VM). The hostname of the build server that hosts packages. A Puppet JIRA ticket ([BKR-1109](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/BKR-1109)) has been filed to update beaker so this would never be required.
**SUITE_VERSION** | (If not set, will be automatically determined if possible) The build tag/version string used when installing packages on certain platforms - e.g. if the package you built is `pdk-0.5.0.0.21.gb84d40e-1.osx10.12.dmg` then **SUITE_VERSION** would be `0.5.0.0.21.gb84d40e`

# Release Process

1. Bump the version in `lib/pdk/version.rb`.
1. In a clean checkout of master, run `bundle exec rake changelog`.
1. Edit PR titles and tags, until `bundle exec rake changelog` output makes sense.
1. Run `bundle exec rake gettext:pot` to update the translations.
1. Commit and PR the changes.
1. When the PR is merged, get a clean checkout of the merged commit, and run `bundle exec rake release[upstream]` (where "upstream" is your local name of the puppetlabs remote)
1. Profit!
1. Update `lib/pdk/version.rb` with `x.y.z.pre` version bump, commit, and PR to prepare for next release.
